# TabNet Neural Network-Based Approach for High Accuracy Static Detection of Malicious Android Apps from APK Permissions

Abstract:

Android systems have been known to have loose security protocols regarding apps put on the Google Play Store that millions of people use daily to download 3rd-party open-source developed apps. Some of these apps have been known to cause a breach of privacy and steal sensitive user data for malicious reasons. Currently, the dynamic detection system is not preventative and works only after runtime and the static detection system is preventative but is very inaccurate, leading to data breaches. Static detection involves looking at clusters of requested app permissions, implicit or explicitly asked, to identify if there is privacy overreach. Past research has been conducted on using machine learning systems to classify an APK as malicious or benign based on static analysis of permissions, but the accuracies range to a max of 90% and are not versatile to generalize to other changes or new additions. A 10% error rate is very significant considering the simply massive number of people that use the Android system. Therefore, the goal of the first TabNet neural network-based approach for static detection of malicious android apps from APK permissions is to improve accuracies so that they are up to par with industry standards. The TabNet network and overall method architecture were able to produce 99% model validation accuracy, 97% testing accuracy, 97% precision score, 96% sensitivity score, 97% specificity score, and 97% F1 score.

